Welcome back in in this lesson we're going to be wrapping up this exercise for our calorie calculator.
So next thing that we want to do is work out the height so we know that we've got age and the height
was a little bit more difficult because we've got a couple of values there so we need to get the value
of feed and we need to multiply that by 12.
And then we need to add it to the value within height inches.
So let's go out and do that and we saw how really Mason Letelier age worked.
So it's simply put that one in here and we're going to update it and we're going to have this one the
first of all we're going to get is height in feet.
So we know we need to multiply this by 12.
So there we go so we multiply it by 12.
And that's going to give us the number of inches.
And we also know we need to add inches to this value.
So simply do that and we're going to do and this one instead of feet will be inches.
So that will give us the over all height.
And then we can do added into our formula.
So we've got next one that we need is weight.
So let's set up wait and wait.
Is we've got that value here so the same way that we did age let's do weight and we can set up weight
in that format.
So you've got weight we've got height.
We've got age and we're ready to make our update and work out our formula.
And I'm going to have one more here that I want to add in as lifestyle so we'll just call it lifestyle
and this one we're going to get the value that's contained within their so it'll be 1 to 5.
So there we go.
So we got all of those parameters that are contained there.
And this one over here because we do have two different formulas.
We're going to do a condition we're going to check to see if it's male that we're going to run one formula
if it's female.
We're going to run the other formula.
So let's let's try that out.
So let's set that up and we're just going to call this one.
This would just be the result and we're going to see if Because remember this is returning back a boolean
value.
So we know that if it's not male then it's going to be female so we can do a tear unary operator actually
for this one.
So let's do this and we have a choice here.
We can punch all of these numbers in to a function so it could set up another function to do that calculation.
Or we could do the whole formula here so let's an optional that we have to work with.
So let's actually let's create a function for those.
So the function first one will be male calculation and so we're going to get all of those values in.
We have to pass everything in.
So this this way actually it turns out a little bit longer.
So maybe what I'll do is keep the formulas directly within this Teron every operator.
So we know that with the terrine area OPERATOR So our first formula just take this one here and pop
it in there.
So we know that if we're getting this result here.
So what we want to do is want to wrap this in brackets and let's clean it up so we know that we we don't
need weights in years in inches so I can get rid of these because these are the same as my variable
names.
So I've got age height and weight.
So those will all fit in nice and neatly.
We need to update this multiplication because with javascript It's the little Asterix it's not the X.
So just make sure that those are all right and we're not equaling up to this so we can get rid of that.
We're equaling up to the result.
And the only other thing that we want to add in is the value of life style.
So it's art and lifestyle.
And we're going to multiply it by.
So right now for this exercise let's set up lifestyle.
We're just going to equal it to the value that we're picking up times 0.2.
We'll wrap it in rounded brackets and then we're going to add 1 to it.
So this is approximately the ratio that we had incrementing by point 2 depending on how active the person
is
and with the Terran area operators so we need the alternative.
So we know that this one was a formula for males.
So if it's a male then it runs this formula and this is the formula let me double check.
So the second one was the second one was for women.
So just making sure that I'm getting the right formulas in the right order here.
So this one is for women and we've got to do the same thing where we need to clean this up a little
bit.
So let's wrap it in another bracket here.
Let's get rid of the excess wording here that we don't need because we already have the variables the
same format.
And let's update these strict says is multiplication X's two asterisks so that they work within javascript.
I have to do a beautify and just to make sure that it's working and we'll put result in here.
And before we go ahead we still need to update this as negatives there and just make sure that if we
have any other ones some of these characters they don't immediately translate over so I'm just double
checking to make sure that I don't have any problems with some of the characters so that they're not
actually plus minus and they're not actually javascript mathematical symbols so now I think we're ready
to try that out.
So let's go out refresh.
And we can see that now whenever we make some adjustments we see that the values are changing.
We've got a value for mail.
We've got a value for female.
We update the age then we see that those values are also updating.
So we've got all of the calorie intake it's all in all of the calculations and we're ready to add in
some more to the formula.
So we know that with the result we need to actually around this and this is where are going to use javascript
math in order to round the result and that will clean that up a little bit.
So out in that second bracket.
And let's clean this up go back to refresh.
Try it out again.
So I got rid of all those decimal places because we don't need those we just want have a nice clean
output.
So this is basically the amount of calories that a person should have if they're really active then
they need actually more calories.
So everything looks like it's working properly.
And the last and final step is to output it for the users.
So we've seen this before earlier that before were outputting here to output.
So let's go out and use that same input same element there and let's do documents you can go out and
pause the video and finish this up where we're actually outputting the result seeing something like
this is the number of calories you need per day and outputting it with in that output area.
So go ahead and add that in I'll show you the conclusion coming up slurper to conclude the video get
element by id output.
And we know that we want to set the H to a male and we want a result of math around result.
So what you put there and we can add in some more information like
calories calories needed per day.
So there we are so let's try that out and refresh.
So let's see that if you weigh 150 pounds and if you're a male and you're six foot six you need 2141
calories if you're younger.
You need 2100 97 if you're more active you need more calories.
If you weigh more than you need more calories and I believe that this calculation actually is to maintain
your weight.
So if you want to lose weight then you would go underneath those calories.
Obviously we don't have too many people that are 10 feet high.
So you could make that into the H2 model where you can check maximums and minimums and you can also
add that into your function here in your javascript.
So you can use javascript to make sure that the range is between a specific range and if it's outside
of the range then we can do a check here a conditional check and update those values.
So now it's up to you to take what you've learned in this exercise and then the previous exercise and
make some updates and make this simple calorie counting application on your own.